README.md, before:

# Awesome Framework
[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

A curated list of projects, tools, documentation and resources related to the Framework Laptop

## Contents
- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer) - Please read!
- [Expansion Cards](#contents)
- [Mainboard Enclosures](#mainboard-enclosures)
- [Embedded Controller Firmware Mods](#embedded-controller-firmware-mods)
- [Linux Support](#linux-support)
- [Accessories](#accessories)
- [Hardware Support](#hardware-support)
  - [Storage](#storage)
  - [Memory](#memory)
  - [WiFi Cards](#wifi-cards)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Disclaimer
This repository and the resources within it are **COMPLETELY UNOFFICIAL** and not in any way endorsed or supported by Framework. Your use of these guides and projects is **AT YOUR OWN RISK** and **MAY VOID YOUR WARRANTY.** We ask that you do not reach out to Framework support about problems related to these resources, but you can feel free to reach out to the community maintainers via GitHub Discussions or Issues within this repository.

## Expansion Cards

## Mainboard Development
- [Mainboard Reference](https://github.com/FrameworkComputer/Mainboard) - Physical and electrical reference for the Mainboard (and a 3D printable enclosure).
- [WhatTheFilament](https://github.com/whatthefilament)
  - [Framework-Motherboard-Reference-CAD](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Motherboard-Reference-CAD) - To-scale CAD reference of the Mainboard.
  - [Frame-WorkStation](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Frame-WorkStation) - Desktop enclosure.
  - [Framework-Desktop-Adapter](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Desktop-Adapter) - ATX mount adapter.
  - [Framework-Tablet](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Tablet) - Tablet conversion case.
  - [FrameStation](https://github.com/whatthefilament/FrameStation) - Game console enclosure.
  - [Framework-Test-Bench](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Test-Bench) - Development/Test bench.

## Embedded Controller Firmware Mods
- [DHowett](https://github.com/DHowett) (AKA The EC Guy)
  - [Hacking your Framework Laptop’s EC for fun and profit](https://www.howett.net/posts/2022-04-adding-an-ec-feature-1/) - Great place to start hacking your EC.
  - [ECTool.EFI](https://github.com/DHowett/FrameworkHacksPkg) - EFI Shell application for flashing the EC.
- [EC Firmware Source Code](https://github.com/FrameworkComputer/EmbeddedController)

## Linux Support
- [Distro List](https://frame.work/linux) - List of officially supported distros and links to their setup guides.
- [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Framework_Laptop) - The arch wiki entry for the Framework Laptop.
- [LinuxLaptops Wiki](https://github.com/lhl/linuxlaptops/wiki/2022-Framework-Laptop-DIY-Edition-12th-Gen-Intel-Batch-1) - Wiki article with a ton of useful information specific to linux on the framework laptop.
- [Linux Battery Life Forum Thread](https://community.frame.work/t/linux-battery-life-tuning/6665) - This will be replaced (soon) by a page in this repo since this is outdated and (in some places) incorrect. 
- [Common Problems](/linux/common-problems.md) - A collection of common issues with running Linux on the Framework laptop and their solutions.

## Accessories

## Hardware Support
### Storage
- [Officially Validated SSD List](https://knowledgebase.frame.work/en_us/what-storage-ssd-parts-are-compatible-with-the-framework-laptop-rJOOeHU0_)
### Memory
- [Officially Validated DRAM List](https://knowledgebase.frame.work/en_us/what-memory-dram-parts-are-compatible-with-the-framework-laptop-ry_jbS8Ru)
### WiFi Cards
- [Officially Validated Wifi Card List](https://knowledgebase.frame.work/en_us/what-wifi-parts-are-compatible-with-the-framework-laptop-rytGfHU0d)

## Troubleshooting

## Community
- [Framework Forums](https://community.frame.work)
- [Framework Discord](https://discord.com/invite/Framework)
- [Framework Subreddit](https://reddit.com/r/framework)

## Contributing
This list's Contribution Guidelines can be found [here.](/contributing.md)

Commit message:

Added community validated storage from #12 RFC

README.md, after:

# Awesome Framework
[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)

A curated list of projects, tools, documentation and resources related to the Framework Laptop

## Contents
- [Disclaimer](#disclaimer) - Please read!
- [Expansion Cards](#contents)
- [Mainboard Enclosures](#mainboard-enclosures)
- [Embedded Controller Firmware Mods](#embedded-controller-firmware-mods)
- [Linux Support](#linux-support)
- [Accessories](#accessories)
- [Hardware Support](#hardware-support)
  - [Storage](#storage)
  - [Memory](#memory)
  - [WiFi Cards](#wifi-cards)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Disclaimer
This repository and the resources within it are **COMPLETELY UNOFFICIAL** and not in any way endorsed or supported by Framework. Your use of these guides and projects is **AT YOUR OWN RISK** and **MAY VOID YOUR WARRANTY.** We ask that you do not reach out to Framework support about problems related to these resources, but you can feel free to reach out to the community maintainers via GitHub Discussions or Issues within this repository.

## Expansion Cards

## Mainboard Development
- [Mainboard Reference](https://github.com/FrameworkComputer/Mainboard) - Physical and electrical reference for the Mainboard (and a 3D printable enclosure).
- [WhatTheFilament](https://github.com/whatthefilament)
  - [Framework-Motherboard-Reference-CAD](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Motherboard-Reference-CAD) - To-scale CAD reference of the Mainboard.
  - [Frame-WorkStation](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Frame-WorkStation) - Desktop enclosure.
  - [Framework-Desktop-Adapter](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Desktop-Adapter) - ATX mount adapter.
  - [Framework-Tablet](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Tablet) - Tablet conversion case.
  - [FrameStation](https://github.com/whatthefilament/FrameStation) - Game console enclosure.
  - [Framework-Test-Bench](https://github.com/whatthefilament/Framework-Test-Bench) - Development/Test bench.

## Embedded Controller Firmware Mods
- [DHowett](https://github.com/DHowett) (AKA The EC Guy)
  - [Hacking your Framework Laptop’s EC for fun and profit](https://www.howett.net/posts/2022-04-adding-an-ec-feature-1/) - Great place to start hacking your EC.
  - [ECTool.EFI](https://github.com/DHowett/FrameworkHacksPkg) - EFI Shell application for flashing the EC.
- [EC Firmware Source Code](https://github.com/FrameworkComputer/EmbeddedController)

## Linux Support
- [Distro List](https://frame.work/linux) - List of officially supported distros and links to their setup guides.
- [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Framework_Laptop) - The arch wiki entry for the Framework Laptop.
- [LinuxLaptops Wiki](https://github.com/lhl/linuxlaptops/wiki/2022-Framework-Laptop-DIY-Edition-12th-Gen-Intel-Batch-1) - Wiki article with a ton of useful information specific to linux on the framework laptop.
- [Linux Battery Life Forum Thread](https://community.frame.work/t/linux-battery-life-tuning/6665) - This will be replaced (soon) by a page in this repo since this is outdated and (in some places) incorrect. 
- [Common Problems](/linux/common-problems.md) - A collection of common issues with running Linux on the Framework laptop and their solutions.

## Accessories

## Hardware Support
> **Note**
> Parts listed as community validated are not on Framework's list of officially supported parts. While they have been tested by members of the community, there is no guarantee that they will work for you.
### Storage
- [Officially Validated SSD List](https://knowledgebase.frame.work/en_us/what-storage-ssd-parts-are-compatible-with-the-framework-laptop-rJOOeHU0_)
- [SK Hynix Gold P31](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B08DKB5LWY) - Community validated SSD. Available in 500GB, 1TB and 2TB sizes.
- [Crucial P2](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B086BGWNY8/) - Community validated SSD. Available in 256GB, 500GB, 1TB and 2TB.

### Memory
- [Officially Validated DRAM List](https://knowledgebase.frame.work/en_us/what-memory-dram-parts-are-compatible-with-the-framework-laptop-ry_jbS8Ru)
### WiFi Cards
- [Officially Validated Wifi Card List](https://knowledgebase.frame.work/en_us/what-wifi-parts-are-compatible-with-the-framework-laptop-rytGfHU0d)

## Troubleshooting

## Community
- [Framework Forums](https://community.frame.work)
- [Framework Discord](https://discord.com/invite/Framework)
- [Framework Subreddit](https://reddit.com/r/framework)

## Contributing
This list's Contribution Guidelines can be found [here.](/contributing.md)
